---
layout: post
title:  "The-Essays-of-Warren-Buffett"
date:   2020-04-01 20:30:41 -0600
categories: jekyll update
---

I picked up the book a while ago for one obvious reason - to learn from this legendary person in the field I'm interested in. Warren's philosophy is sort of in opposition to another book I came upon recently - wallstreetbets - a highly speculative community with the sole purpose of reassuring their members' fantasies. Haha maybe I shouldn't even bring it up, it's just a joke. Recently I let a perfect opportunity slip away from my hand. This and the quarantine give me a chance to reflect on myself and picked up this book to dive into Warren's mind.

Corporate governance plays a huge part in Warren's evaluation of a company. He believes that real value creation requires every part of the company to be incentivized to create value. It may sound like common sense but it's hardly done in companies. For one thing, most existing corporate governance structures tend to have many conflicts of interest between directors, managers, shareholders, employees and so on. Or in many cases and as a side product of promoting fairness, there might not be enough interest for one to justify the effort it takes to get it. Say if company A and B are very similar in every aspect except the fact that company A does not have a controlling shareholder while company B has one. In this scenario it is better for value investors to put their bet in company B. This is because company B's structure provides *effective* protocols for the board to provide constructive feedback, which was less encouraged in the structure of company A because it's difficult for people to express opposition in a small, closed environment with little guaranty that their voice will be appreciated. Decisions like this are not to be made from complex calculations but from common sense.

This is especially true in one of the essays that talks about how CEO choose to evaluate himself might indicate their motive - whether it's to maximize per-share value or to meet performance bonus requirements. His faith in this accessing style is certainly against modern trends as time went on. Modern theories related to investing are inclined to rely too much on numbers and complex models which sometimes violates very simple logic without notice. In the example of modern portfolio theory, beta was overly trusted by investors as the perfect tool to eliminate volatility (risks). Buffet has doubt in this narrow perspective as he had noticed when a stock drop 20% in price, the model tells people that this becomes a risker investment so it should be avoided. Even a fifth-grader may not commit the same mistake.

I took the origin of advice very seriously since the market is consistently evolving such as massive employment of algorithmic trading systems and broadened accessibility. So I naturally have my doubts on how a 100-ish years old investment philosophy might hold up in today's environment. But to my surprise, it may be worth exploring precisely because of its age. At the end of the day, it lived through the test of time.
