---
layout: post
title:  "The Prince"
date:   2020-04-14 19:26:41 -0600
categories: jekyll update
---

The Prince by Niccolo Machiavelli is often regarded as the foundation of modern political philosophy. You can tell the influence it had just by observing how well spread  the name Machiavelli is. Even people who have no idea about politics might know what the term Machiavellian means. These and many others   are the reason why I'm intrigued by this book.

However, after finishing the book in 2 days, I was caught by a sudden sense of confusion. What did I just read? What is *The Prince*? It seems like Machiavelli's guide to administering principalities, but the complexity of its symbolic meaning can easily overwhelm unprepared readers. It was a visionary and revolutionary work that replaced classical and Christian moral with one of his own creation: one that's justified by the ends not means. Alternatively, it may be a satire as some noted, which may be justified by the dynamic between him and the Medici family who was the recipient of the book. However in a letter to one of his friends he expressed that *The Prince* is simply his recording of conversations with the ancient greats, since "according to Dante learning without retention is not knowledge". Given the level of sophistication of both Machiavelli and the time he lived in, it's impossible to determine without further information.

What about the new prince, his seemingly primary audience of the book? What is the new prince or what should be the new prince? In a sense Machiavelli's ideal for the new prince is very psychopathic: one observes his goals and current situation, then bring about a list of calculated action that most effectively push him toward the goal. In this thought process no moral consideration exists. It shouldn't exist if the man is virtuous in Machiavelli's term. However, Machiavelli himself is not psychopathic. He had strong patriotisms for his country and people. But he and his work is rebuked for centuries and even today. 

What might explain this is the difference of his moral definition of good and bad. In other words, in some aspect Machiavelli did not depart from classical and Christian moral. He even operate them in the same modes as traditionalists would. The correlation of this quality and the appearance of psychopathy or Machiavellianism in him therefore, is only a result of correlation of psychopathy and politics itself. In simple terms, I'm saying politics might be inherently psychopathic and evil. Notice the close tie between politics, group behavior, game theory and scale. Could it be that the goodness simply will not scale up with greatness of a leader? 

The fundamental problem of politics might emanate from the inconsistent nature of scales. Certain attributes changes drastically as scale changes. Communism is certainly an example of someone that didn't observe this phenomenon as societal resolutions were asked to performed at an individual level. In a sense this is the definition of idealism: failure to recognize this inconsistency. In the case of the classical Christian empire,  state were expected to behave morally similar to an individual. In this regards, *The Prince* did not commit the same mistake but explicitly the difference between the qualities of new prince and that of an individual, and his strategy of maintaining an impression of such qualities to the public can be seen as a transition between the idealistic demands by the public and the realistic demands of the prince.

I think it is extremely hard, if not impossible, for the public to not be idealistic. This might be an somewhat unique quality of large mammals that individuality is to be at all times a necessity to maintain. Whereas for certain organisms like ants, such quality does not exist or appear to be very limited, therefore politics for ants does not exist or appear to be very limited, because there is no conflict of interest between individual and collective if the effect of scale cease to operate: there is no more district groups, everyone of the same party. 

For us humans, the notion of conflict between collective scale and individual scale seem to exist everywhere in political philosophy: philosopher kings in Plato's *Republic*; Two "humors" in *The Prince*; bourgeoisie and proletariat in class struggle of communism; Self-preservation and invisible hand in capitalism. This conflict of interest originate from nothing but the laws of the universe it self and therefore cannot be eliminated. But speculation of its elimination certainly exist: In an anime called *Neon Genesis Evanglelion* humans eventually merge all consciousness into one to eliminate human suffering. The many became the one and the one became the many and they were all happy in the end.

For us, in the end scale doesn't exist just like true consistency doesn't exist. And I admire people's attempt to turn chaos into order since even determination of the feasibility of such task is on the bleak edge of perceivable logic, but humanity must go on.